Title : Core metrics identified to enhance surveillance of private credit

Abstract :
Category Metric Description
Size and trends NAV or AUM of private
credit funds
Total Net Asset Value (NAV) or Assets Under
Management (AUM) of private credit funds.
NAV or AUM by strategy Segmented by (i) direct lending, (ii) asset-based
finance, (iii) NAV/fund finance, (iv) special
situations/distressed.
Private credit issuance Issuance as a percentage of GDP or total
lending to nonfinancial companies.
SRT holdings Private credit funds’ holdings of Significant Risk
Transfer (SRT) instruments over total NAV.
Interconnectedness Bank lending to private
credit funds
As a percentage of total bank assets,
categorized by facility types (e.g., subscription
lines, NAV, ABL).
Insurer investments Share of insurer investments allocated to private
credit.
PE ownership of
insurers
Share of insurance companies owned by private
equity (PE) firms.
Committed vs drawn
capital
Committed vs drawn capital by banks to private
credit funds.
Leverage Private credit funds’
leverage ratio
Debt to NAV and debt to equity ratios of private
credit funds.
Borrowers’ debt-toEBITDA
Leverage ratio of private credit borrowers.
Liquidity mismatch Open-ended fund NAV NAV of open-ended private credit funds as a
proportion of total private credit funds’ NAV.
Redemptions Redemptions frequency
Investor base NAV or AUM of private credit funds held by retail
vs institutional investors.
Concentration Fund concentration NAV or AUM of top N (e.g. 3, 5, or 10) private
credit funds divided by total NAV or AUM.
Sector concentration Private credit exposure to top N (e.g. 3, 5, or 10)
economic sectors divided by total exposures.
Cross-border
activities
International exposures Total exposures of funds with at least X% of
borrowers domiciled outside the fund manager's
jurisdiction.
Geographic
concentration
Private credit exposure to top N (e.g. 3, 5, or 10)
geographies divided by total exposures

Borrower credit
quality
Loan-to-value (LTV)
ratio
Average and distribution of borrower loan-tovalue ratios.
Interest coverage ratio
(ICR)
Average and distribution of borrower interest
coverage ratios.
Debt service coverage
ratio (DSCR)
Average and distribution of borrower debt
service coverage ratios.
Default rate Default rate on private credit loans.
Negative free cash flows Share of borrowers with negative free cash
flows.
Credit spreads Private credit spreads or interest rate spreads
over the risk-free rate.

Additional metrics
Category Metric Description
Interconnectedness Share of private credit borrowers
with bank revolving credit lines
Percentage of borrowers in private credit
with access to bank revolving credit lines.
Bank-private credit fund overlaps
in corporate portfolios
Extent of overlapping exposures between
banks and private credit funds in corporate
portfolios.
Borrowers financed by both private
credit funds and banks
Number (or total borrowing) of borrowers
financed by both private credit funds and
banks, as a share of total borrowers (or
borrowing) of the private credit fund.
Share of private credit funds (NAV)
managed by dual-role asset
managers
NAV of private credit funds managed by
asset managers who also run private equity
and/or private credit funds.
Affiliated private credit
investments/total assets held by
PE-linked insurers
Ratio of affiliated private credit investments
to total assets of insurers linked to private
equity firms.
Aggregate size of capital call
subscription facilities
Total size of capital call subscription
facilities used by private credit funds.
NAV of SRT initiated by banks
over total private credit funds NAV
Ratio of Significant Risk Transfer (SRT)
initiated by banks financing private credit to
total NAV.
Leverage Private credit fund assets over
drawn investor capital
Ratio of fund assets to drawn investor
capital.
Subscription line utilization Subscription line utilization as a percentage
of committed capital or NAV.
Share of borrowers with leverage
ratio above threshold
Proportion of borrowers in each private
credit fund exceeding a defined leverage
ratio threshold.
Liquidity Mismatch Open-ended funds with
redemption frequencies
(daily/weekly/monthly/quarterly)
NAV of open-ended private credit funds
with specific redemption frequencies over
total NAV.
Unencumbered cash and liquid
assets over stressed redemption
requests
For each private credit fund, ratio of
unencumbered cash and liquid assets to
stressed redemption requests.
NAV of private credit funds with
liquidity management tools
NAV of funds with tools like redemption
gates, notice periods, side pockets, etc.
Share of assets managed by semiliquid private credit funds
Percentage of private credit fund assets
classified as semi-liquid.
Semi-liquid funds imposing
penalties on <1 year redemptions
Share of semi-liquid private credit funds
with penalties for redemptions within one
year.
Redemption requests for semiliquid and perpetual funds
Volume of redemption requests and
redemptions met by semi-liquid and
perpetual/evergreen funds.
Drawn amount of private credit
funds over total NAV
Ratio of drawn amounts to total NAV of
private credit funds.
Unfunded commitments to private
credit funds over unencumbered
cash and liquid assets
Ratio of total unfunded commitments to
liquid resources available.
Share of investments classified as
Level 2 assets
Percentage of private credit fund
investments classified as Level 2 assets
under fair value hierarchy.
Undrawn funds from secured
funding facilities
Total undrawn amounts from secured
funding facilities.
Balance of unfunded commitments
to borrowers
Total unfunded commitments owed to
borrowers.
Concentration Exposure to top N issuers Private credit exposure to top N (e.g., 3, 5,
10) issuers divided by total private credit
exposures.
Bank exposure to top N private
credit funds
Bank exposure to top N (e.g., 3, 5, 10)
private credit funds divided by total bank
exposure to private credit funds.
Borrower Credit
Quality
Share of loans with PIK features Percentage of private credit loans with
Payment-In-Kind (PIK) features or PIK
toggles.
Borrower financial metrics Metrics like borrower cash interest
coverage ratio, fixed charge coverage ratio,
net leverage, share of companies with
negative FFO (funds from operations) or
CFO (cash flow from operations), and value
of non-accrual loans over total investments.
Share of borrowers with negative
cash earnings
Percentage of borrowers with negative
cash earnings.
Covenant breaches and distressed
loans
Share of loans with covenant breaches,
waivers, restructurings, amend-extends,
distressed exchanges, payment deferrals,
PIK activations, or defaults (e.g., payment,
bankruptcy, covenant defaults) in the last
12 months.
Percentage of loans with
maintenance covenants
Share of private credit loans with
maintenance covenants.
Exposure-weighted share of loans
by type
Distribution of exposure across first-lien
senior secured, second-lien, mezzanine,
unsecured, and preferred/hybrid loans.

Conclusions
Private credit is estimated to be between $1.5 trillion and $2 trillion (as at end 2024) and has
grown rapidly. This was driven by its ability to provide tailored financing options for companies,
including those with higher credit risks or limited collateral. While traditionally targeting mediumsized enterprises and open to institutional investors, private credit is increasingly providing
financing to larger firms and accessed by retail investors. The ecosystem revolves around asset
managers, insurers, pension funds, and banks, with asset managers acting as general partners.
However, challenges in monitoring private credit arise due to a lack of harmonised definitions
and granular data, as well as opacity, complex valuation practices, and intricate and varied
funding structures.
Interconnections between private credit funds and banks, insurers, and private equity firms are
deepening, raising potential vulnerabilities. While closed-end structures have traditionally
mitigated liquidity mismatches, the growing use of fund structures that provide some investor
liquidity and retail investor involvement may increase risks. Borrowers in private credit markets
are often highly leveraged, making them susceptible to economic downturns, while reliance on
opaque valuations and private ratings heightens vulnerabilities. The sector's complexity,
leverage, and interconnectedness could amplify stress in adverse scenarios, posing broader
risks to financial stability.
Looking ahead, the FSB’s continued efforts will be considered in four main areas. The first area
will involve continuing the assessment of vulnerabilities related to interlinkages between a range
of nonbanks within the private finance ecosystem, as well as potential vulnerabilities related to
liquidity mismatches in private credit funds. Second, work is underway to map and define the
components of the complex and evolving ecosystem. Third, facilitating supervisory discussions
will be considered to enhance authorities’ ability to assess and supervise vulnerabilities and
risks. Finally, the potential to address data challenges will be explored, to improve authorities’
ability to monitor and address vulnerabilities.